It seems to me right now you could do
like a double blind test of the same
prompt given to Grock, Claude, Gemini,
Mistral, Deep Seek. I bet most people
wouldn't be able to tell which is which.
>> Benedict Evans is a technology analyst
known for his insightful takes on
platform shifts in the tech industry. He
sees AI differently than others. He
spent decades spotting patterns others
miss and dives into how people really
use AI. Why is it that somebody looks at
this and gets it and goes back every
week but only every week? The very high
level threat to Google is that you have
this moment of discontinuity in which
everybody resets their priority
reconsiders their defaults. And so it's
no longer just the default that you go
and use Google. There's this sort of
question for Apple around does this
actually change the experience of what
the smartphone is, what the ecosystem
is. Does it end up kind of getting
Microsofted in the sense that?
[Music]
>> I want to start with your most
controversial take on AI. It's funny my
I suppose my take on AI controversial
take on AI rather like my controversial
take on um crypto is being a centrist in
that it seems to me very clear this is
like the biggest thing since the iPhone
but I also think it's only the biggest
thing since the iPhone and there's a
bunch of people who think no it's much
more than that it's a minimum it's more
like computing and then you've got
people going around saying no this is
more like you the electricity or the
industrial revolution or you know
transhumanists or something. My sort of
base case is to say this is kind of
another platform shift and all the new
stuff will be built around this for the
next 10 or 15 years and then there'll be
something else and so the impact on
employment will be kind of like the
impact on employment from the other
platform shifts and the impact on the
economy and productivity and
intellectual property and there'll be
there'll be a whole bunch of different
weird new questions just like there were
a bunch of different weird new questions
before and then in 10 years time it'll
just be software.
put this in historical context for us
with other platform shifts. What
everybody's saying this time is
different, which everybody does at each
platform shift, I would imagine. And
what's the same? Well, that's the
there's a there's a famous book about um
financial bubbles called this time is
different because people always say this
time is different and it always is. Like
the dotcom bubble was different to like
the late ' 80s and the Japanese
financial bubble was different to you
know, pick any other bubble you want.
They're always different. Um, but that
doesn't mean they're not a bubble. And
the same thing here. I have a diagram I
use a lot from, um, 1995. This research
firm made a diagram of something called
they called cyberspace.
Um, because it wasn't clear it was just
going to be the internet. It was clear
that everyone was going to have some
kind of computer thing connected to some
kind of network. But remember the phrase
information superighway.
>> Yeah. which sort of conveys that it
would be centralized and controlled by
cable companies and phone companies and
media companies, which is sort of how
everything had always previously worked.
It wasn't clear, no, it was going to be
the internet. It wasn't clear the
internet was going to be kind of
radically decentralized and
permissionless and anyone could do what
they wanted. It wasn't clear the
internet was going to be the web and
only the web because there were all
these other things going on. If you look
at Mary Mika's first big public internet
report from 1995, she has a separate
forecast for web users and email users.
And she thought email users would be way
bigger. It wasn't clear like that was
all one thing and then it wasn't clear
that it was about the browser. It wasn't
clear that the browser wasn't where the
value capture was cuz Microsoft
crowbarred its way into dominance in
browsers but that turned out not to
matter and then all the value is in
search advertising and social which were
5 years later and 10 years later
and so like you can be very very clear
that this is the thing and then still be
completely unclear how it's going to
work. The same thing with with with
mobile internet. Just funny. Mobile
internet now it's kind of like saying
black and white television on color
television. Desktop internet, mobile
internet, black and white TV, color TV.
No one really says mobile internet
anymore. It's like talking about
e-commerce. You're starting to have
people talk about physical retail and
retail. And but it wasn't clear, you
know, I was a telecoms analyst in 2000
and it was very clear mobile internet
was going to be a thing. It was not
clear that there would be basically
small PCs. Like that was the the
fundamental shift of the iPhone is it's
a small Mac. It's not a phone with
better UI. It's a small Mac. And it
wasn't clear that the Telos would get no
value. It wasn't clear Microsoft and
Nokia would get no value. It wasn't
clear it would take 10 years before it
took off. Um and it wasn't clear it
would replace the PC as the center of
the tech industry. I mean everyone was
talking about well what's a mobile use
case? What would you do? You'll do some
things on your mobile phone but what?
But obviously your PC will be how you
use the internet. And of course that's
not how it worked. And so like we kind
of forget because now we don't see it
because now it just kind of became part
of the air we breathe how weird and
strange and different all these things
are. There's something I love talking
about which is is um the rise of
automatic elevators.
So until the 50s elevators were manually
operated. They were basically vertical
street cars. They were tramps. They were
pub trains. And you have a driver who
has a lever with an accelerator and a
brake. If you've been into a New York
co-op, you may have seen one of these.
They call it an attended elevator.
There's a lever. You push it that way to
go down, middle to stop, that way to go
up. And then in the 50s, Otus creates
the autotronic, I think it's called the
autotronic elevator, which had
electronic politeness, which basically
meant the infrared thing that stops the
door closing. But if you get into an
elevator now, you don't say, "Oh, I'm
going to use an automatic elevator with
electronic politeness." It's just left.
We kind of forget how weird and
different all the other things were. And
yes, this is new and weird and different
in a bunch of kind of strange,
confusing, confounding ways we can
probably talk about, but we sort of
forget that other things were weird and
strange and different, too.
>> Is this the first major platform shift
where the incumbents have an advantage
because they have the data? I'm pretty
sure people thought Microsoft had an
advantage on the internet and Google and
um Meta had an advantage on mobile and
everyone thought IBM was going to win
PCs. Like once IBM made a PC, that was
it. It's all over now. And we kind of
forget that like there were PCs before
and then IBM made one and that kind of
became the standard but then IBM lost
it.
>> So what happens with the incumbents? Do
they grab on to using the technology
instead of adopting it? because adopting
it would mean killing the golden goose.
Like what happens in a platform shift
with incumbent?
>> The master of my college at Cambridge um
said um that history teaches us nothing
except that something will happen and
you know there's always the example and
the counter example. So with any new
kind of any new platform shift and a
platform the term platform shift itself
is you know it's a useful term but you
have to be careful not to be trapped by
your terminology and get into this sort
of arguments about well is it a platform
shift or is not a platform shift and how
do you define a platform like shut up
like you know the the thing is when any
with any of these sort of fundamental
technology changes the incumbents always
try and make it a feature and they try
to absorb it and the same thing outside
of technology um existing companies try
and absorb it and they use it to
automate the stuff they're already doing
and then over time you get new stuff you
unbundle both the incumbent's intake and
you unbundle existing companies because
of something that's possible because of
this new technology. So you can always
kind of jump into the new thing and
sometimes the new thing kind of really
is just a feature and sometimes it's no
it's a fundamental change in how
everything works and sometimes that sort
of contingent you know there's this
whole sort of parlor game like drinking
game that historians play about kind of
historical inevitability you know well
what would have happened if that battle
had been lost or if that politician had
been assassinated or not assassinated
and it depends sometimes the answer is
well no nothing then and that everything
would have been completely different and
sometimes the answer is well no then you
know what if Napoleon had won at
Waterloo well then he'd have lost
another battle 6 months later like
nothing would have changed the whole
environment had changed um what if you
know the revolution hadn't happened in
spring of 1917 then he would have
happened in the summer or the autism
sometimes it's like really clear I mean
I always think the um the Kodak example
here is kind of interesting
>> tell me a bit
>> because you know like it's like the
cliche that people say oh Kodak had
digital cameras and they didn't get it
or they ignored it or they didn't want
to do it because it would destroy their
business. But then you go and look at it
and it's like, well, that was 1975 and
the thing they had was the size of a
refrigerator. Like, no, that was not a
consumer product. And it took until the
late '9s before the technology was
actually viable as a consumer product.
So, of course, like they didn't do it in
the 70s cuz you couldn't. What actually
happens is once it starts happening,
Kodak go all in on digital cameras. At
one point, they were the bestselling
digital camera vendor in the USA. And if
you look at their annual ports of the
time, they think this is going to be
great because they're going to sell way
more photo printers. So they're selling
these inkjet photo printers. People are
going to produce way way more photos. So
they're going to take way more. They're
print. They're going to print them all.
Two things that screw Kodak. One of them
is is smartphones. And you could argue
that what actually screws Kodak is not
the camera. It's it's the social media
and it's not printing anymore.
>> Because that's what kill that's one
side. The other side of it is that film
was this high margin product where they
had a bunch of unique intellectual
property and digital cameras are a low
margin um commodity where they were
competing with the entire consumer
electronics industry with no
differentiation. And so even if they go
even at the point being even even if you
go all in into that market, it's still a
crappy market where you've got no
differentiation. Um, so you can kind of,
you know, you can you can kind of put
all of these things on the table and
shuffle them around and say, well, in
hindsight, obviously, Brigy was screwed
and in hindsight, obviously Google was
going to be able to make the jump and in
hindsight, you know, in hindsight and
yeah, maybe. Is there a parallel between
the second point you made about Kodak
and Google today where, you know, they
have a high margin search business and a
low margin AI business?
So I think it's I'd be nervous about
knowing what the margins are in AI
because we've had you know depending on
who you ask like the price to get a
given result has probably gone come down
by two orders of magnitude but then
that's that was the state of the art two
years ago and now there's a new thing
which is more expensive. Um and so
there's a awful lot of kind of shifting
planes and shift you know there's
there's a lot of there's a lot of
algebra and all the variables and the
algebra all changing at the moment. So,
it's kind of hard to quite to know what
that is. I think the the kind of the the
the obvious Google threat right now is
that um Google shows you a bunch of
links and results and ideas and those
could now be solved in a different Well,
let me kind of go back a second. Um the
very high level threat to Google is that
you have this moment of discontinuity in
which everybody resets their prior and
res reconsiders their defaults.
And so it's no longer just the default
that you go and use Google and for this
search or that search like maybe Bing is
10% better on that search. In fact, as
we saw from the mic the the the Google
TAC trial last year actually Bing is
Google is still the best search engine
by quite a long margin relative to the
other traditional search engines. But
what we have now is like a reset of the
playing field. Um, and Google has a
whole bunch of advantages as to why they
might win in that playing field. But
there's a reset both of what the product
is and and and how you sell it and your
org structure around selling it and do
you have the right politics and the
right org structure to build that and
the right incentives and internal
conflicts and then the consumer behavior
kind of get reset as well. My
understanding of AI is that so much is
data driven like you have proprietary
data sources you have uh better data so
you can train better model that gives
you one of the key inputs I would
>> so I'd actually I think it's actually
the opposite which is that everyone's
kind of using the same data which is you
need such an enormous amount of
generalized text
that the amount that Google has or that
meta has is not actually enough to move
to be a kind of fundamental difference
in what you can train with.
>> So you don't think like YouTube as a
repository is an advantage for like a
significant advantage?
>> So it depends.
>> Push back. Yeah. I want to say
>> so it depends. So the models that we're
training now, we're training on text.
So that's not really being trained on
YouTube. We saw this lawsuit around book
copyright with Meta that they downloaded
a torrent of pirated books cuz guess
what? that's they don't have enough st
text and it's not the right kind of text
and
>> they don't have lots of pros they've got
lots of short snippets of text so I
think the generality of LLM is you just
need such an enormous amount of data
that everyone kind of needs all the text
that there is and all the text that
there is is kind of equally available to
anyone
>> so we've kind of like the data is a
level playing field effectively
>> yes because you need so much more and
it's also not necessarily the kind of
data that you have. So obviously Google
has, you know, an enormous repository of
scrape data because they read the web
all the time, but anyone else with a
billion dollars can go out and do that,
>> right? Or you can go and download the
common crawl from AWS.
>> How far away do you think we are from
autonomous sort of AI making AI better?
So uh no human intervention, but AI sort
of going out in the real world, getting
feedback, adapting itself and making
itself better. there is this sort of
like people parody of like the f like
you like suddenly magically this thing
grows and becomes amazing and and learns
everything. Um I don't think we're at
that stage now. I don't think anyone
really knows when it would happen. So
it's very sort of impressionistic. I
think another answer might be you kind
of have to be very careful looking at
headlines and thinking like what exactly
is that telling me? Um, so Enthropic has
done a bunch of things where they say
like the AI was threatening to blackmail
me.
>> Yeah, I saw that.
>> And you read the story and you think,
okay, you asked what's basically a story
generating machine. Please tell me a
story of what you would do if in this
situation where most people would
probably say X and the machine says
probably X. And you say, my god, it said
it would do X. It's like, well, yeah,
it would blackmail
>> based on human behavior.
>> It would blackmail you. Okay. How would
it do that?
>> Yeah.
>> What do you mean it would blackmail you?
It's kind of like like the reductive
adabetum of this is um you write this is
point somebody else made that like you
write murder is good on a piece of paper
and you put it in a photocopier and you
press go and you say my god the machine
says murder's good. Well, no, you told
the machine to say that. And that's what
these anthropic studies are. They're
basically you tell the machine to say a
thing and then it says it like well you
haven't proved anything.
>> You know people talk a lot about product
market fit, sales tactics or pricing
strategy but the truth is success in
selling often comes down to something
much simpler. The system behind the
sale. That's why I use and love Shopay
because nobody does selling better than
Shopify. They've built the number one
checkout on the planet. And with Shop
Pay, businesses see up to 50% higher
conversions. That's not a rounding
error. That's a gamecher. Attention is
scarce. Shopify helps you capture it and
convert it. If you're building a serious
business, your commerce platform needs
to meet your customers wherever they are
on your site, in store, in their feed,
or right inside their inbox. The less
they think, the more they buy.
Businesses that sell more sell on
Shopify. If you're serious about
selling, the tech behind the scenes
matters as much as the product. Upgrade
your business and get the same checkout
that I use. Sign up for your $1 per
month trial period at
shopify.com/nowledge
project. All lowercase. Go to
project to upgrade your selling today.
Shopify.com/nowledge
project.
Do you ever struggle to stay focused?
There's a reason I reach for my
Remarkable Paper Pro when I need to
think clearly. If you're looking for
something that can help you really hone
in on your work without all the
distractions, Remarkable, the paper
tablet might just be what you're looking
for. Remarkable just released their
third generation paper tablet,
Remarkable Paper Pro. It's thin,
minimalist, and feels just like writing
on paper, but comes with powerful
digital features such as handwriting
conversion, built-in reading light,
productivity templates, and more. It's
not just another device. It's a
subtractive tool. No notifications, no
inbox, no apps. Just you, your ideas,
and a blank page that feels like paper,
but smarter. Whether you're in a meeting
or deep in a creative session, this
device is built to keep you in the zone.
In a world built to steal your focus,
this tablet gives it back. It's become
the place I do my deepest work, and it
travels light. Slim enough for any bag,
powerful enough for any boardroom. Not
sure if it's for you? No worries. You
can try Remarkable Paper Pro for up to
100 days with a satisfaction guarantee.
If it's not the game changer you were
hoping for, you'll get your money back.
Get your paper tablet at remarkable.com
today.
Where do you stand on regulation of AI?
So, I think regulation of AI is sort of
the wrong level of abstraction. Talking
about regulating AI as AI is the wrong
level of abstraction. And it's like
saying we're going to regulate databases
or regulate spreadsheets or regulate
cars. Well, we do, but not like that.
When you regulate stuff, there are
trade-offs. Like, you learn about this
in your first year in economics class.
Like, regulation has costs and
consequences, and it's not necessarily
um you know, there's there's always a
trade-off. And often you're making
product decisions or engineering
decisions that do actually have
trade-offs. There's like a three-way
trade-off of like what's good for the
product, what's good for the consumer,
what's what's good for competition,
what's good for the company, what's good
for the consumer.
>> I think the regulatory stuff is
interesting in the framework of multiple
countries sort of competing for super
intelligence. How would you advise a
country to prepare for AI? If I'm the
president of the United States and I
call you and I say, Benedict, uh, you
have 5 minutes. I need what do I need to
prepare for? What can I do to put our
country in the best position possible?
>> Well, what's your objective? Is your
objective to um have a nice press
release?
>> No, it's to dominate AI.
>> A long time ago, I used to get these
questions about like how can we
replicate Silicon Valley? And I always
feel like the answers to those questions
as much as possible is like you can't I
mean occasionally there are things you
can do like you can create funding
structures you can make it easy you can
you know you can try and jumpst startup
ecosystems you can try and jump start
funding availability but most of the
answer is things like getting out of the
way I think that the idea of trying to
create national champions is very hard
now that almost kind of becomes an
economist's question rather than a
technology question. How do you create
national champions? Where has that
worked? Where has that not worked? I'm
sure there's a bunch of books and papers
about, you know, why where does
industrial policy work? Where does it
not work? From a technology analyst
perspective, I think of this in terms of
a what are you doing that would make
this harder and b think of this as just
more startups.
>> What are the things that we're doing
that make it harder to develop that uh
ecos without picking a winner? It's not
about picking a company and backing
them. It's like if you do like this this
this ridiculous law that California had
a year or two ago, if you treat this as
like nuclear weapons
>> and you say this is incredibly dangerous
and we need to have it under extremely
tight control so that nobody does
anything bad with it, which is basically
the EU approach.
>> Go back to your economics class.
>> Policies have trade-offs. To govern is
to choose. You're making a choice when
you do that. And you're choosing that
has costs. Personally, like most people
in tech, I think the idea that this is
all going to kind of produce bioweapons
and take over the world and kill us all
is just idiotic. Like I think I think
it's just a bunch of kind of childish
logical fallacies within that. But you
have to be conscious. You say if we're
going, you know, the the kind of the
Biden approach to to generative AI very
explicitly was to say this is sort of
social media 2.0.
>> Like social media to one was terrible
and destructive and bad. And I think
there's a I don't agree with that. I
think there's a huge dose of moral panic
within that. But be that as it may, if
you make a decision that says we are
deliberately and explicitly going to
make it really hard to build models and
really hard to start a company that
builds models and really hard to do
anything with any of this stuff, then
guess what? It's kind of like, you know,
the mayor election in New York today.
Like if you make it really hard and
expensive to build houses, houses will
be more expensive.
You've made that choice. If you do that,
you cannot then complain that houses are
more expensive. You can choose that, but
you can't complain.
>> Why do you think as a society we don't
understand that?
>> Part of this is that like in most
non-emotive fields, we kind of do like
you understand people understand that,
you know, if you make, you know, more
employment regulation tends to produce
slower growth but more protection for
employment and you you're choosing a
trade-off. You people kind of I think
everybody on both sides of that equation
understands that that that's a trade-off
and you're choosing one versus the
other. The point is you can have a fully
functioning free market and you can
regulate some of the negative
externalities of free markets that
anybody in any part of the economic
spectrum understands there are negative
externalities to free markets. You can
also have like a government provided
alternative. You can have the government
do the fire department where you have
some of the kind of most obvious gaps
between the US and Europe it seems to me
sometimes are in places where you kind
of have neither.
So the US neither has a
governmentcontrolled health care system
nor a free market healthare system.
>> Do you see what I mean? You have neither
a governmentont controlled housing which
you have in like in weird places like
Singapore nor a free market in housing.
So you kind of break the free market. So
you stop the price signaling. This is
like the great insight of Hayek is that
pricing is a signal. Pricing is an
information system. It's telling people
what's wanted. It's not it's not just a
signal of worth. It's a signal of
demand. There's a a fascinating book I
read a while ago called Red Plenty which
is about Soviet central planning in the
' 60s '7s ' 80s and it's about sort of
what happens when you have a central
planning that just cannot cope with the
level of complexity of a sophisticated
economy in the ' 60s and ' 70s as
opposed to let's make grain and tractors
and locomotives in the 20s and 30s and
steel which already kind of works. But
once you actually have a sophisticated
industrial economy, central planning
can't handle the complexity. And so you
try and create incentives and structures
around that while not having pricing and
that just doesn't work. I suppose
there's a sort of a generalized point
which is like a market economy is a
system and if you pull a lever here
something will move there and you can't
just pull a lever here and say well I
don't want that to move because it's a
democracy. It will move anyway and so
you have to understand how the system
works and understand what consequences
you want from that and what your
parameter parameters are within this.
One of the things that I admire about
you is that you're sort of known for
spotting patterns. I have a theory on
how to learn pattern matching. And I'd
love to hear your your push back on
this. My theory on how we learn is I
call it the learning loop. We have an
experience. We reflect on that
experience and we create a compression
and that compression becomes our
takeaway. So we can watch a movie uh
read a book and you come away with a
compression of it. But you can work
backwards from that compression to the
experience. But what we consume most of
the time is other people's compressions.
So like when people read your
newsletter, they're consuming a
compression of the work that you've done
uh but not the actual raw work. So in a
way it's an illusion of knowledge if if
you haven't done the work in that area.
>> It's funny. I'm I'm I have a draft
thinking about like what LLMs do to web
search and publishing and discovery and
e-commerce and like big foot of hand
wavy fuzzy all of that stuff. And I was
sort of thinking about this and there's
a book written by a French academic sort
of 20 years ago or something called how
to talk about books you haven't read
which sounds very kind of um snide. Um
but kind of his point is that like
there's the book you read when you were
17 and you really didn't get it.
>> Mhm.
>> And if you read it now you'd get it. And
there's the book that like he's got this
kind of list of like there's the books
that everybody else has read so it's to
say you've read them. There's the books
that like you've read three other books
by that writer so you don't really need
to read this one too. Um you get it like
you do need you know do you need to read
another Malcolm Gladwell book like if
you you've kind of got the Malcolm
Gladwell experience. So there's this
sort of generalized sense of pattern and
accumulation
of what you've seen what you've half
seen what you half remember. There's
also I think you know what your your
your viewers listeners might notice is I
I kind of have two modes two or three
modes. I have a mode that's sort of
discursive and slightly rambling and
free associating and I'll kind of spiral
off in different directions and
hopefully come back to the point. Um,
and then there's a mode where I want to
try and pin the thing down and break it
apart and say what are the two three
four things that are happening here
which is what you see in the slides is
no like what is it? It's this and then
this and then that and does that
capturing that? That's a way of trying
to understand what this is. I try and
work out what I think about this, how I
understand it, how you can break it
apart by kind of pinning it down. The
thing about data is, and the thing about
the slides in the analysis is is like
I'm always asking, who cares?
>> And I'm always asking, yes, but what
actually matters here? Why are you
showing me this slide? Why am I showing
you this chart? And so, you kind of have
to ask like, well, what are the actual
questions? What are the questions we're
not asking on AI that we should be
asking?
>> I mean, we're asking, okay, well, there
are some people who are saying, all the
value catch is going to be in the in the
in the in the models. There's this kind
of funny split between people who are
just talking about the models getting
better and everybody else is saying,
well, all the value is going to be in
the application layer and you know, what
are the companies and let's fund cursor
and let's fund all of this stuff and why
isn't there a consumer breakout yet? And
other people are saying, what do you
mean there isn't a consumer breakout?
Everyone's using chat GPT to which
answer is well not exactly which is my
data point some people are using chat
GPT most people look at it and don't get
it still which is fascinating there's
this kind of core where's the value
capture question then there's like a
bunch of questions we could have asked
two years ago where we don't have an
answer will the error rate ever be
controllable or manageable will you ever
get to a model that knows when it's
wrong which to me seems like given a
stat statistical system seems like a
contradiction in terms but maybe there
was a bunch of kind of you could make a
list of like a dozen questions we could
have asked in early 23. We don't really
have answers to any of those. I mean
there were some people who asking are
these things commodities? Will China
catch up to a true answer even then was
obviously yes of course which is what
happened which deep sea kind of
demonstrated.
But we don't have that many new
questions since then. The thing that I
puzzle about right now is first of all
there's this whole nexus as I said of
like what is LL what is SEO for LLMs?
You know, we have infinite product,
infinite retail, infinite media. How
will you choose what to buy? What
happens if I go to an LLM and say, "What
mattress should I buy? What life
insurance? What life insurance should I
get?" How does that what that that poses
dozens of questions we don't know yet?
Then there's a question around like the
differentiation in the LLMs as product.
Like it seems to me right now you could
do like a double blind test of the same
prompt given to Grock Claude Gemini
um Mistral Deep Seek. Do a double blind
test. I bet most people wouldn't be able
to tell which is which. That question of
like is there product differentiation?
Can there be product differentiation
around the LLM as consumer product?
Because right now the models are
commodities but chat GBT is way way way
way more usage. So chat GPT is at the
top of the app store rank. Gemini
bubbles between like 50 and 100. Um none
of the others were in the top 100. Same
in Google Trends, same in the usage
numbers, same in the revenue. There's
revenue for a corporate API. Corporate
is a whole other story. But as a
consumer thing, it's like chat GPT is
now like the brand. It's the default.
It's the Google. You use it because
you've heard of it and none of the
others have broken it. Is that where we
are now? is that but then if you look at
the products the products not any of the
models all the same the underlying model
is the same the products all the same
it's really hard to tell the difference
except like they've got different color
schemes and different icons
>> different branding
>> different branding but the products all
the same and this reminded me of looking
at um browsers in that browsers are all
the same rendering engine underneath
might be different just as the LLM might
be different but you've got an app an
input box and output box and the output
box renders what the rendering engine
give you and the only innovation in
browsers in the last 25 years is
basically tabs and merging search in the
address part.
>> Yeah.
>> And there like there's like the browser
project there's people trying to do it
now but it hasn't worked hasn't got
traction and is that sort of how LLMs
will work in that it's about the
distribution and the brand is not
actually about the product or the model
or is it maybe more like social in that
yeah photo sharing is a commodity but
you there's a big difference between
Instagram and Flickr.
>> Yeah.
>> And all the other people that try to do
photo sharing. And so you have to
>> that would almost be an argument that
it's sort of winner take all right it's
very hard for uh like use code as an
example it'd be very hard for clothes to
compete if they don't have enough
um usage to continuously make the
investments.
>> Well that's a slight this is a slightly
different thing. So the winner there
doesn't appear to be a sort of
self-reinforcing cycle in which more
people use it because more people use
it. the product gets better because more
people use it so more people use it
which is what you have with operating
systems because you have more apps
therefore more users therefore more apps
it's what you have with Google search
that Google has all the feedback from
how people use it that makes the search
engine better you have a network effect
in social media that you're there
because you're there because your
friends are there because you're there's
no apparent equivalent in LLM right now
there's no reason why the LMS get better
because more people use them now that
may come you have that open AI and
people have doing memory where it
remembers what else you've asked, but
that seems more like a switching cost
than a network effect. And also, it
might be easier for you to just ask it
what it knows about you and then tell
Claude or vice versa. So, it's not clear
if that but we are at that sort of stage
where you're looking at the browser and
saying, is there a way that you can
create stickiness yet or that you can
create a network effect on the browser
or is it just that the browser itself is
a commodity? Um, now capital is not a
winner takes all effect in that
convention. would always at any rate
there's a different kind of winner takes
all effect. Um I mean I wouldn't
conventionally think of capital as a
network effect. Um or is it it's not a
product that's in it's not something
that's inherent in the product. It's
something else. It may be that yes chat
GP the open AI has more money so they
can make their model better.
>> There's like six rabbit holes I want to
go down before we move on to something
new. If open AI can I I like your point
about sort of at the point where AI gets
better because people are using it then
there's a huge advantage to being open
>> because we don't have any we don't have
visibility on what that would be yet
>> at that point though um whoever's in the
lead would sort of
>> if it did then you could get kind of a
runaway um but we should kind of go back
and think about MySpace
>> um because you have like in the it would
be MySpace you know in the early phases
of these things and you see the same
thing with the early PC industry
you've got a dozen of them and there's
often an early leader that falls away
later and say MySpace was the early
leader that fell away later. Then you
get a late stage where the S-curve kind
of flattened out where all the network
effects have kind of solidified and the
product quality has solidified. It was
very easy actually to get people to
switch back and forth between MySpace
and Facebook and and Bibo and and and
Friends Reunited and whatever the um um
or all these other things in the early
days, right? then you kind of get this
this separation out. But then of course
then you get then Instagram comes along
and then Tik Tok comes along right and
so as soon as you have something that's
a different proposition that turned out
to be extremely easy to pull that away
you know you Google Google lost to
YouTube they had to buy YouTube Facebook
lost to to Instagram and WhatsApp and
they had to buy them both. So those are
quite fragile and quite narrow winner
takes all effects or at least they they
appear to be. We don't know what that
would be or what the modalities would
look like. Modalities, sorry, that's a
great meaningless word. It's like saying
societal. We don't know what that would
look like and therefore we can't we
don't know how rigid it would be or how
it would work because we don't have it
yet. You can't as as I'm sure you know,
you're not they're not retraining the
models all the time with the data. So
you don't have that kind of runaway
effect as like continuous flow and more
queries produces you know better
results. Um so it's kind of tricky to do
that yet.
>> I want to come back to something you
said. You said some people look at chat
TPT and don't get it.
>> Yeah, I think this is really important.
There's a whole bunch of survey data on
how people how many people are using
this stuff. You've got the numbers from
so so so chat open AI pretty say well
we've got this many weekly active users.
Funny thing about social is people when
social happened people would talk about
registered users. You know in the early
days of the internet people would talk
about hits. Yeah.
>> And then we realized that if your web
page has seven items in the menu bar
that's seven gifts. So that's seven
hits. So it's was meaningless and you
had to switch to page impressions and
then it's registered users and then it
was monthly active users and on social
people said well hang on if you're using
Instagram once a month you're not using
it in daily active users or nothing and
weekly active users we don't like
either. Now OpenAI is doing weekly
active users and Sam Wolman was a social
media startup founder. He knows this.
It's a [__] number. You look at
survey data and I had did this slide in
the last presentation I did of like five
different surveys from the US from late
last year earlier this year and it's all
roughly the same. It's like something
around 10% give or take three or four
percent of people depending on the
survey are using this say they're using
this every day. Another sort of 15 to
20% of people say they're using it every
week. And then there's say you've got
like say 10% of people using it every
day. Say 15 or 20% of people using it
every week. another 20 or 30% of people
who say I use it every month or two and
another 20 or 30 people% of people who
said yeah I had a look I didn't get it
and then you have this survey where
people say 70% of people are using AI
and like wait what do you mean there's a
whole other rabbit hole which is you
know people say well did you use
Snapchat's face filters so you're using
AI what do we mean by AI so which is
let's be specific let's talk about you
are you using a consumerf facing LLM
chatbot like you're going to chat GPT or
claude and asking questions like that's
the number we want to look
Are you struggling to manage your
projects at work using lots of different
tools for communication, task
management, and scheduling? Doesn't have
to be this hard. Base Camp is the
refreshingly straightforward, reliable
project management platform. It's
designed for small and growing
businesses. So, there's none of the
complexity you get with software
designed for enterprises. Complexity
kills momentum. Base Camps the path so
your team can actually move. do away
with scattered emails, endless meetings,
and missed deadlines. With Base Camp,
everything lives in one place. To-do
lists, message boards, chat
conversations, scheduling, and
documents. When information is
scattered, attention is too. Base Camp
brings both back together. Basecam's
intuitive design ensures that everyone
knows what's happening, who's
responsible, and what's coming next. My
head of operations swears by this
platform and is the first person to
suggest it to anyone. If you need
another decorated referral, you should
call her. Whether you're a small team or
growing business, Basec Camp scales with
you. Stop struggling. Start making
progress. Get somewhere with Basecamp.
Sign up for free at basecamp.com.
[Music]
And to me, there's a there's a bunch of
you could matrix this. So, some of this
is it's early. There's a counterpoint
here which if people do the chart and
they say, "Oh my god, it's so fast."
It's like it's faster than smartphones.
Yes. Because you didn't need to buy a
$1,000 smartphone,
>> right? It's faster than PCs. Yes. Cuz
you know what PCs cost in the 80s
adjusted for inflation? It's like five
grand.
>> Yeah. It's free for a lot of them.
>> It's free. It's a website. You just go
there. Of course, it's got faster
adoption and there's way more people
online as well. So even the absolute
numbers are faster than they were for
Facebook 20 years ago, 15 years ago
because there's way more people online
now. Yes. So So that's that's again an
example of my unfair but relevant
comparison. You're sort of standing on
the shoulders of giants. So, of course,
you can get to way more people quicker,
but do you have to keep asking, "Well,
what?" Yes, but why do so many more
people look at this and not get it? Or
even worse, the not getting it. I can
kind of see cuz people look at
everything and don't get it. Why is it
that somebody looks at this and gets it
and goes back every week, but only every
week,
>> right?
>> Why is it they can only think of
something to do with this once a week?
>> I worry about those people.
I mean, I I'm just thinking if these
numbers are accurate, the 10%, the 15,
you know, 90% of the people that I spend
the most time with are within that 10%.
>> Well, I'm not.
>> Interesting. Tell me more about that.
Well, here actually, I'll I'll preface
this conversation with my kids don't use
Google anymore. They have they use it to
find phone numbers or local businesses
or places uh distance. everything else
they they basically have defaulted to
chat GPT. Now
>> again I'm going to all AI conversations
seem to be analogies. So 100% and it's
like it's like nuclear weapons. It's
like no it's not
>> the comparison I think is interesting
here. It was not perfect but it's
interesting is to look at early
spreadsheets for software spreadsheets
spreadsheets were paper. Dan Brooklyn
creates Vis and the other guy, I can't
remember the other guy's name, who
create Visical in the late '7s. And I
think to get an Apple 2 to run it with a
screen and everything cost like 15 grand
adjusted for inflation. And you show
this to an accountant and it's like, you
can change the interest rate here and
all the other numbers change. And we see
that now and we're like, yes,
1978 that was a week of work almost
literally.
>> That was like amazing.
>> Yeah. It would do a week of work in half
an hour.
>> Yeah. or less. And he has all these
stories about accountants who would, you
know, they would be given a one-mon
project and they get it done in a week
and then they'd like go and play golf
for three weeks because they partly
because they could probably they didn't
actually want to tell the client I
needed it in a week because the client
would think they hadn't done it
properly. So I look at chat GPT and I
think right I don't write code. I have
zero use for something that will write
code for me. I don't really do
brainstorming.
>> Okay?
>> I don't do summarization of things. I
don't do the things where it's sort of
out of the box, easy and obvious. And
then there's a sort of mental load of
okay, I've got to kind of try and think
of what things am I doing that it could
do for me. And that most people don't
think like that. So there's a sort of I
said a moment ago, there's like a
matrix. There's a matrix of like who has
the kinds of tasks that it's good at
obviously.
Who is good at has the kind of task that
it's good at? Not obviously. Who is good
at thinking about new tools for the
things that they're doing? Who isn't? If
you
>> I'm kind of blown away you don't
reflexively use AI.
>> If you were using Salesforce
and you had a button that said, "Draft
me an email to reply to this client."
>> Then that gets massive adoption.
>> Well, that feature that we talked about,
>> but that's a different thing. Yeah.
>> Is it is it the chatbot as product where
you get this blank screen and you kind
of look at it and you scratch your head
and you have to think well what is it
that I would do with this and then you
have to form new habits around it or is
it that it's wrapped in product and UI
where somebody else has said it would be
really useful for this wouldn't it and
then you look at it and go oh yeah that
would I could do that.
>> Do you think it's better with
qualitative or quantitative?
I think it is presently
and I'm going to again a binary
statement. I think today it has zero
value for quantitive analysis.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Because if well let me let me qualify
that. Do the numbers need to be right or
roughly right
>> because what all of these things do is
they give you something that's roughly
right? And roughly is a spectrum but
it's always
>> you don't want pi to be 3.1.
depends how big the circle you're
measuring is.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know this is the line about pi
that you know we can calculate it the
like then however many digits we have is
like enough to calculate you know the
diameter of the g of the universe or
something but people still adding more
numbers. So you know there's a little
bit of Zeno's paradox in here you know
like you get infinitely close at a
certain point it doesn't matter and this
is at a high level this is some of the
AGI argument that if the thing gets
infinitely close to reasoning without
ever actually reasoning does it matter
>> like at a certain point the thing if the
thing is always right if thing if the
thing is only wrong once in a billion
years does it matter that it's not that
it's not always right the problem today
is it's not wrong once in a billion
years it's wrong a dozen times a page
>> you don't want to spit that out and give
it to somebody
>> so I had very early example of this and
I was going to speak at an event at the
beginning of 2023 and the conference
people had asked me for a long biography
of myself and I didn't have I don't
still don't have one and so they'd made
one and they'd used it with chat GPT and
not told me and they just sent it to me
to check and I looked at it and I said
what the [__] is this [__]
>> that's 2020 that's like
>> but generations ago
that's not relevant to the point I'm
going to make the point I'm going to
make is a it was always the right kind
of biography it was the right kind of
degree the right kind of university
right kind experience, the right kind of
jobs. It just wasn't actually right
things. But B, I could take that and fix
it.
>> Mhm.
>> So for them, it was useless.
>> Right.
>> For me, it was completely very useful as
I spend 30 seconds fixing it instead of
spending an hour scratching my head,
which is why I say right or wrong
depends, which is a very kind of French
philosopher kind of question. Is the
answer is the prompt does it does the
prompt have errors? It kind of depends
why you wanted it. Okay. or that I don't
have use cases where I want something
that's roughly right. I don't have use
cases where I want a list of 10 ideas or
I wanted to brainstorm or I wanted to
draw me an email or I wanted to write
code or I wanted to generate some
images. You know, I have a friend who
works at a consultancy and they want
pencil sketches of concepts and now they
can just use vid journey to make those.
That's great. Does that sketch like does
that person at the back have three legs?
Not anymore. No.
And if they did, it wouldn't matter. You
could Photoshop that out. I don't do
that. That's I don't create images. So,
I don't have a good mapping of the stuff
this is good for early
>> against the stuff that I do. And the
stuff that it that it maybe would be
useful for is the stuff where it's
actually not yet very good. And the
things where you would mitigate that by
saying, well, I would fix it. I don't do
those things.
>> Okay. So th this is a good thing because
I wanted to come back to something you
said. You said you think by writing
>> and in a world where you're taking
something generated by AI and editing it
that's different than writing. Talk to
me about thinking by writing. I why she
my my TGPD use case which is more mental
model than a practical thing is I write
something and I think is that I would
what I would always would ask in the
past is kind of your point about pattern
recognition is I look at something and
say am I adding value here am I saying
something useful am I saying something
different am I asking the key question
am I pushing further am I pushing the am
I asking the next question rather than
just answering the obvious questions now
I can just say is this what chat GPT
would have said and if the answer is
this is what chat GPT would have said
then I didn't publish it not because
people can get it from fat GPT but
because anyone would have said that
>> that's a perfect analysis in the sense
that it raises the baseline of what
qualifies as insight
>> the difference is the slope of the
insights and so you wouldn't say it if
chat GBT is going to say and push back
on this by all means uh but the the chat
GBT level of insight to use an example
it could be clo it could be croc could
be any of them is increasing at a faster
pace than most people and eventually
those slopes inter and it's probably
intercepted or or intersected already
with you know maybe up to intern level
and next year it might be master's level
or it might even far surpass that and it
hasn't some domains in terms of math um
the year after it might and so maybe
it's like 5 years before it it passes
Benedict um and maybe it's four years
before or it passes somebody else and
maybe it like passed me a way long time
ago. So I think there's a
there's there's two or three directions
we we could take that. One of them is
it's an interesting theoretical
philosophical question is originality
which is to say Alph Go could do
original moves because it could do all
the moves and do do moves that no one
had done before not knowing what people
had done before but it had an external
scoring system. It knew that that move
was good.
>> Mhm.
>> The have feedback.
>> Yeah. It had a feedback loop because
every move has a score. It can evaluate
the score every move. The classic um
parable of the monkeys and typewriters
or you know the Borg's infinite library
is there's no feedback loop.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes. The Borg's infinite library
contains new masterpieces generated at
random. Well, the monkeys were
typewriters would generate new
masterpieces but there's no feedback
loop. So there's no way of knowing. You
see this for the music now. You can
generate new music. It could generate
new stuff that you wouldn't know. For an
LLM variance is bad.
originality is is is a lower score. So
what's the feedback loop for original
but good? Now it might be that that's
the same sort of false question as
saying is it really reasoning or is it
just right 99 times you know 9 followed
by many zeros. Does it actually
understand or is it just always right
without understanding? Does it actually
know that's original and different or
does it not? And that's a that's a kind
of a puzzling I don't think we know the
answer to that and it may be the wrong
wrong question but it's a kind of a a
puzzle as to how would these how far can
these things make things that are both
different from the training data and
good and is knowing that this is
different but good is it really
different or is it just matching the
pattern on a longer um frequency do you
see what I mean and how much could you
actually have predicted that given
enough data that it's not actually
outside the pattern. It just kind of
looks like it is if you're zoomed in
more and if you zoom out more then that
is m matching the pattern. How would you
know that people will it's like you know
thinking about music like how would you
know that people would like punk? You
could get you can very easily imagine um
generative AI system that can make you
more stuff that sounds like yes or more
stuff that sounds like Pink Floyd. It
might not sound like good Pink Floyd for
Floyd, but you could imagine it would
make more stuff that sounds like like
the Grateful Dead. You know what
Grateful Dead fans say when they run out
of drugs? This music's terrible.
>> You can imagine this. You can imagine,
I'm being unkind, but like you can
imagine the challenge is knowing that
now people are really fed up of 70s
Prague rock and they would really like
something else and that something else
would be punk and that would work. is
knowing that people in the ' 40s were
really fed up of the war and would want
luxury and that Christian's new look
would work and would express that. Could
an LLM do that thing? How much variance
do you need? I don't know. It's an
interesting like thought experiment to
ask that question.
>> Oh, there's a completely different place
to take this, which is to say this is an
appeal for boutiques and inerson events
and the unique and the curated and the
individual. There's a shop I always used
to always talk about. I'm not sure if
it's actually still there. There's a
shop in Tokyo that just sells one book
in Ginsa that just sells one book and
they change what it is once a month. It
may may have closed 10 years ago. I've
been talking about it for 20 years. But
the point is, you don't go into the shop
and have to work out what book to buy.
But you have to know the shop exists.
>> Or you can be Amazon and you got 500
million scoops and they know they've got
everything. Like actually there's some
stuff they don't have because they want
to be individual like they don't have
LVMH. But for the sake of argument,
Amazon has everything. But you can't go
to Amazon and say what's a good book or
you know what's a good lamp. They have
all the lamps. You can't just go to it
and say what lamp should I buy,
>> right?
>> All of retailing and merchandising and
advertising is about where are you on
that spectrum and what else do you do?
Do you do you spend the money on rent or
advertising or shipping
>> or what and how does that work? And the
more there's a sort of a polarization
between well if I know I want the thing
I can get it within 12 hours but how do
I know I want the thing? And as I
alluded to earlier, an LLM is one might
paradoxically an LLM could suggest you
the unique individual thing. Would the
LLM also create the unique individual
thing? That's a high and a second that's
that's a different question. It's a
question further down the pipe. But the
more that the LLM can do what everybody
would probably do or say what everyone
would probably say, then the more you
push to other places.
>> That makes a lot of sense. I mean
there's always going to be a market for
insight whether it comes from LLMs or
people you you have to be providing
insight.
>> You know our world as quote unquote
content creators is a very wide spectrum
of people who do very different stuff
and there's you know there's people
doing AI slop and there's people doing
you know the the what is it called the
you know the passive income thing but
there's people who do very different
kinds of content coming from different
places for different reasons. You know,
Scott Galloway does very different kind
of stuff to me. Mary Mika does very
different kind of stuff than me. You do
very different kind of stuff to me. It's
just part of that is about who you are
and your story and the authenticity of
it. And some of it is about no one cares
who you are, but you're saying
interesting stuff and some of it's a
recommendation algorithm or something
else. There's a book by um Zula about
the creation of department stores called
Boner Dam, which means the happiness of
women. And it's basically about a 19th
century Jeff Bezos calling an apartment
store department store into existence
out of thin air through force of will.
And like he invents fixed prices so that
you can have discounts and loss leaders
and mail order and advertising and you
know he puts the the slowmoving
expensive stuff at the top of the store
and he puts food and makeup on the
bottom of the store. Um there's nothing
new under the sun. And meanwhile the
shopkeepers on the other side of the
street are saying like have you seen
what that maniac's doing now? He's
selling hats and gloves in the same
shop. He's got no morals. He'll be
selling fish next. And of course, he's
got the character. Like there's like the
whole plot point is about um loss
leaders. So there's like you can again
you step back and think well people have
freaked out about industrial
industrialized mass-produced product
before. People have freaked out about
there being too much content. There's a
line that Arasmus was the last person to
have read every book, right? There's too
much AI content slop on the internet
now. Like Yeah. How many books do you
think were being published in 1980? Do
you think everyone was reading all the
books then? Yeah, same thing. Just
different scales, I guess. What advice
would you give students today?
>> Well, when I was a student, we're all
supposed to be learning Japanese. I
think that was just the tail end of
that. You know, I was sort of lucky to
have a a sort of very expensive and
old-fashioned and handcrafted education
that was all about learning how to learn
and learning how to think. I think there
are skills that people used to sneer at
that probably shouldn't have been
sneered at and certainly shouldn't know.
I mean, I'm old enough to remember when
people would just sort of smuggly say,
"Well, I'm not computer literate."
>> As though that was like was like being a
car mechanic or something. Um, I don't
know how to do that. That's not my
problem. That's somebody else's problem.
And I don't think anyone now, partly
this is because of mobile, I don't think
anyone thinks like that anymore. Should
you learn to code? No. I think you
should find out if you want to learn how
to code. I think this is like saying
should you learn an instrument or should
you, you know, go take theater classes.
That you that may or may not be what you
should be doing. Of course, what does
learn to code need in 10 years time?
That's a different question. But should
you I don't think you should presume you
will or won't be a software engineer. I
think you should presume that you will
need to be curious and that you'll have
many careers and different kinds of
jobs. I think you should be focusing on
learning how to think, but I don't know.
I think you should be presuming that
everything will change.
>> Everybody says something like learning
how to think. I feel like you would have
a really good What does that mean? Like
break that down for me because it
probably means different things to
different people.
>> So, every now and then I I'm slightly
perplexed to get an email asking for
career advice because I think if you
looked at my LinkedIn like it sort of
company shut down, company shut down,
company shut down, like lasted a year
there, that didn't work. Coming from the
UK and seeing the US system, I never
really liked the US idea that like if
you want a good job, you should be doing
math and business and engineering. Now,
that may be how people hire students
here. But I never liked the idea that
like studying philosophy or studying
history or studying literature is
useless because you're learning about
history. That's not what I learned. Yes,
you know, I wrote lots of analogies
about history, none of which are
actually things I studied at university.
What I learned studying history at
Cambridge was how to ask what the next
question is, how to break this apart,
how to read a 100 books or 50 books in a
week and find the bits that you need,
how to synthesize lots of information,
how to ask, well, what does that
actually mean as opposed to what it
looks like it means? Do you believe
this? Is this credible or should you
just jettison that idea? um how do you
put this together and think about how
you would explain something and that's
what my friends who studied English did
or my friends who studied philosophy did
or my friends who studied engineering
did that was what you were being taught
how to do you wouldn't be weren't being
taught to be an English lang to be a
historian or to and I'd hesitate to
think that you know you can only build a
company if you've had or only work for
Goldman's or McKenzie or a big law firm
if you had a particular kind of
education, a particular kind of degree.
I think he should be looking for um
what's going to challenge you and push
you and give you the ability to learn
and think in different ways. But again,
this is me, you know, what are the
skills that you have? How does your
brain work? How do you think about
things? And it took me, God, 20 years to
work out what I was good at. So, I'm not
sure that you can know that as a
student. So, you have to try and find
what you're good at as well as, you
know, learning to think. Maybe learning
to think is what I do. Maybe that's not
what you should be doing. You should be
learning what is it that you should be
learning to do. What are the things that
you're good at? Try all the different
things. I don't know. It sounds like a
like in a university commencement speech
now. I don't [__] know. Um, but you
don't know what you're going to be good
at. So, you kind of want to try and like
create options for yourself.
>> What did you learn about investing
working at a 16Z? So there's a bunch of
like um maxims or sayings that's
probably I wouldn't want to dignify them
as like thesis or anything else but
there's a whole bunch of maxims and
sayings in venture um which you know we
could have a podcast talking about but
there are better people to give you a
podcast talking about the mechanics of
venture but like you have you're
understanding what startups are and how
they work and how the machine works and
startups are an industry and Silicon
Valley is like a machine for creating
startups and still too Many people kind
of look and say, "Well, that was a dumb
idea." And it's like, "Well, that's the
wrong question." The question is, if it
you look at a startup and you think,
could it work?
>> And if it did work, what would it be?
And could those people make it work? And
then you understand more like the
mechanics of well, how does social media
work and how do people build companies?
And what is it like to create a startup,
which is a whole other conversation. I
think something else that I learned was
um calibration. There's a sort of again
another metaphor I always think of which
is that if you go to like a really great
art gallery like you go to the MoMA or
you know the Met or the Lou or something
there is a masterpiece.
If you go to a smaller weirder art
gallery like London's a gallery in
London called the Wallace collection or
I was in Rome a couple of weeks ago and
I went to one of the sort of old arcatic
palaces and this palace is like it's
like 10 or 15 rooms of of pictures and
they've got like a quite good tinterto
and a maybe tition
and a Raphael. You see it glowing across
the room. They're like, "Oh, that's why
he's Rafael." And it's the same when you
see lots and lots of startups like, "Oh,
that's why he's Max Lechin. Oh, no,
that's why this is bollocks." Like, you
get 10 minutes in and go, I've got
another 45 minutes. I've got to pretend
to be interested and polite so the
founder has a good experience. Um, it's
seeing that contrast and texture and
seeing what good looks like, seeing what
worked, what didn't work, what people
tend to say, how this tend to work. Just
pattern recognition as much as anything
else. You also get there's a whole all
sorts of other kind of cultural contexts
you get around it. You know, Silicon
Valley can be very high school.
>> You know, I always used to say it's it's
an industry town and I always used to
say it was like being a college town
where there's one subject. So everybody
you meet is doing the same thing. And so
in some ways that's very powerful. You
you know everybody around you is doing a
you want to do a PhD. Everyone around
you is doing a PhD. Here's the world
expert in the subject. Of course you
are. It's like being a middle- class
kid. Of course you're going to
university. What do you mean you're not
going to everyone's going to university?
Of course you're going to do great work.
Of course you're going to start a
company. And you're surrounded by the
people who've done it. Um you want to
get a CTO who's done it five times. You
want to get the head of grace who's done
it five times. Like they're all there.
The other side of that is you'll never
meet anybody who isn't working on
exactly the same stuff and isn't
interested in what you're working on. So
you have no external context. You have
no external perspective. The nearest
theater is in LA. Then you know Chicago
I think like is theaters in LA. You want
to go to an art gallery, you got to go
to LA.
>> Who's the best positioned right now? So
from the outside looking in, you know,
sock is is going all in on AI. Elon
seems to be going all in on AI. uh which
of sort of the the leading companies do
you think like a why why are they all of
a sudden shifting and and really you
know they were dabbling in it before but
now they're they're really committing
you know tens and hundreds of billions
of dollars and then who's the best
positioned in this sort of space if you
had to pick one and invest your entire
net worth in it who would it be
>> well that's that's that's several
different questions
>> let's pick them apart
>> like this was a technology that had been
kind of floating around before chatp 3.5
and everyone kind of saw that it didn't
work very well and then chatb
actually it works well enough and then
there's this explosion of interest since
then and so I think last year the Google
Google Microsoft AWS and Meta spent
about $220 billion of capex last year
and we'll probably spend something over
300 this year and so that's basically
more than doubled almost tripled I think
from a couple of years ago so there's
enormous surge in capex in investment in
this and we've got these stories about
like well meta bought scale half 49% at
scale.ai for $15 billion. Apparently
looked at at at both of the other recent
OpenAI spin out safe super intelligence
and what's the other one? Thinking
machines which are both basically
pre-product pre-revenue labs with a
somebody from Open AI at multiple tens
of billions valuations. Um and he
apparently like Sam Walton complained
that Mark is offering people $100
million to join. Um so Mark's in in
beast mode. Microsoft has this kind of
weird situation in that his own models
aren't actually very good, but it's got
this very kind of weird relationship
with OpenAI. Open AAI um Sam Alman is I
was going to say polarizing figure, but
actually opinions about him tend to be
fairly unanimous um and tend to be
fairly negative. Like everybody who's
ever worked with him quit. Open AI
itself still kind of sets the agenda,
but much less so than it was two years
ago. I wouldn't want to do like a
detailed like calling the scores on
whose models are good and whose labs are
good. But you know objectively Google is
clearly like firing on all cylinders now
and is doing very is making great
models. Llama seems to felt llama 4 was
seems to have been an embarrassment and
so met kind of scrambling to catch up.
Apple's in a slightly different position
in that they have always sort of taken
the position that they don't want to be
first. they want to do it right and that
they don't need to be doing whatever the
latest consumer internet thing is like
they don't have a YouTube I think Craig
Fid Federigi said in an interview after
WWDC like we don't have a YouTube he
didn't call it YouTube like we don't
have a YouTube we don't have a car
sharing service we don't do grocery
delivery we also don't have a chatbot
okay that was wasn't quite the question
the question for Apple is how much does
in would integrating an LLM into the
operating system change the experience
of what it is potentially shifting the
competitor balance with with with with
pixel
which at the moment has basically it
only gets bought by people who work for
Google and people who work for the tech
press and like literally no one else
buys Pixels because Google doesn't want
to compete with Samsung. Um we could get
a go down a whole smartphone industry
rabbit hole. There's this sort of
question for Apple around does this
actually change the experience of what a
smartphone is, what the ecosystem is.
Does it end up kind of getting
Microsofted in the sense that you're
going to still for the time being you're
still going to buy a smartphone? It's
not at all apparent there's going to be
another device. And if there is, it's a
long way away. And it might be an Apple
device as well. But you're still going
to buy a smartphone. You're still going
to buy the nice one with a good battery
and the fast chip to run the models and
the good screen and the best camera,
which will still be an iPhone because
Apple still has the best chip team and a
whole bunch of other hardware
advantages. But everything you do on it
will be from someone else. And it won't
be someone else in the sense that it's
an app from the App Store. it will be
someone else in the sense that it's a
model running in the cloud, which is
what happened to Microsoft in the 2000s,
which was everyone had to get on the
internet. To get on the internet, you
needed a computer. You weren't going to
buy a Linux computer. You probably
wouldn't buy a Mac either. So, everyone
bought a Windows PC, but they were using
it to do to do web stuff, not Microsoft
stuff. So, Microsoft kind of lost that.
And so that would be the concern for
Apple would be you'll still buy your new
iPhone and you'll buy the iPhone air
this autumn because it will be thinner
and lighter and it will be a lovely
phone and you'll use it to do chat GPT.
But the counterargument would be to say,
"Yeah, you'll use it to do chat GPT and
Door Dash and Uber
>> and Instagram and that cool new game and
that other new cool game that's enabled
by LLMs and to do Tik Tok and to do and
and and and it will be kind of the same
except they'll so there's a sort of you
see what I mean? There's a this sort of
slight fuzziness around what the bare
case for Apple actually is. Does it sort
of end up like Microsoft did? How bad is
that exactly? What does that mean?
>> Yeah,
>> if we all go to wearing something like
this that's lit up by AI, then that's a
bigger shift, but it's very unclear how
close that really is um just to the
optics. There's another axis here which
is what happens to Google search, where
does that money go? How do you map the
search activity that goes to an LLM that
and how do you map that against where
the revenue is? And also from the other
side, how do you map that against where
the publishers are? How do you think
about whether you just shift your habit
and you're actually using chat GPT as
Google? It's basically doing what Google
does, but you've shifted the brand and
you're going to that search box instead
of the other search box. I don't think
you can count them out in absorbing that
in.
>> So, who would you out of the public
companies? is you had to put your money
in one of the top like seven or
>> Well, so then there was a valuation
question and I a long time ago I was a
public markets analyst and I was bad at
being a public markets analyst, equities
analyst for a bunch of reasons. One of
which was I was never interested in
share prices.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, we've given the standard
disclaimer. You're forced to. What would
you
>> um It's hard to see iPhone sales
slipping from what we see now.
>> Even half the cool, sexy Google stuff is
in the Google app on the iPhone. Mhm.
>> I think Meta and Google there is this
sort of big question around where the ad
revenue goes and how much the ad revenue
gets pulled away to different places. I
think Instagram is probably in a very
good place there in terms of changing
what advertising looks like and how that
works. I mean I I had a slide in my
presentation which was like um what Meta
and Amazon want to do is to make LLM
commodity and for the solder cost.
>> Yep. This is why meta made it open
source because they want to make it
commodity infra that sold the cost and
they differentiate on top with meta
stuff with Facebook socialy stuff and
they want the model itself to be just
infrastructure. Amazon would also like
it to be commodity infrastructure that
sold it cost because that's what AWS is.
They sell commodity infrastructure or
cost and they do it better than anybody
else and they make a lot of money from
doing that. Go to Amazon's financials
and basically all the money comes from
AWS and the ads. People who complain
about AWS don't haven't realized the ads
make it Amazon did 50 billion $60
billion of ad revenue last year. Um, so
Amazon seems to be fine, but there's a
bunch of stuff to navigate around how
does this change how people buy stuff on
Amazon. Who does that leave? Microsoft.
There was this line from Bismar that the
great man is somebody who hears God's
footsteps through history and grabs onto
his code as he walks past. And like is
like tried to first of all he tried to
grab onto VR onto VR and AR with whole
hollow saying that there it is. We don't
talk about that anymore. Like now it's
AI their own models are not really
ranking. I mean they hired Mustafa but
like they're still struggling. They've
got this weird contentious relationship
with Sam Alman and OpenAI and it's
basically not their models. On the other
hand like they're going to sell an awful
lot of Azure to run all this stuff which
again is this tension. Is it is it that
everybody's used just uses chatbt to do
the thing or is it that someone is going
to come to you with a great accounting
product to run farm street? Yeah.
>> And it runs on Azure and it uses some
LLM. Who cares which one it is? It just
it's just better.
>> You know, you connect to your bank and
it does the cool stuff and you connect
to that and it does the cool stuff. You
know, my use case for an LLM is do my
[__] invoicing for me. It's not even
that. It's work out why exactly it is
that that client ERP doesn't like my
bank account and not have me spend the
next 3 months bouncing emails back and
forth with somebody in India about one
thing on getting this done. That would
be a great use case that LMS can't do
that yet. If they could that would be
great but that we're not there yet. So
Microsoft and Google are in this sort of
position of being the incumbent both.
You know, how can I put this and give
you a more systematic again? I'm sort of
thinking my way through to the answer to
your question for Google and Microsoft.
They're in they have an incumbent
business that is potentially disrupted
pretty profoundly by this, but they also
have a cloud business that sells all the
new stuff for this. Amazon has an
incumbent business that doesn't get
disrupted by this, at least much less
obviously, and a cloud business that
will be very happy selling all of this
stuff. Um, Meta doesn't have a cloud
business selling this stuff and has a
bunch of new ways to make money from all
of this new stuff, except they've got to
have some better models. Apple,
is this a competitive threat to the iOS
ecosystem?
A lot of stuff would have to happen
first and they'd have to drop a lot more
balls um before that was to happen. And
meanwhile, they're still going to sell
you the nicest glowing rectangle to do
all of this stuff. And then we're
talking about glasses and VR, which is a
whole other two-hour conversation about
when does that happen. There's still
people poking around in crypto, like web
three. Web three, remember? Maybe that.
Someone said that people still working
on crypto are like those Japanese
soldiers on islands in the Pacific. You
don't know the war's over. Um, but
there's still people working on crypto.
So, that's like another disruptive thing
coming down the pipe. Who are the other
incumbents? Um, Netflix is a TV company.
It was a car company. Elon Musk,
there's a there's a whole
The Tesla conversation fascinates me
because Tesla bears bulls think it's a
software company and Tesla bears think
it's a car company. And at the moment
it's a car company. I mean, yes, they
launched autonomous driving, but what
did they launch? They launched half a
dozen existing model cars with test
drivers doing a geoence drive that
everyone else was doing 10 years ago. Is
that going to scale? Is are they finally
going to get the flywheel of having all
the camera data meaning that we'll work
with just cameras?
We've been I don't there's a
conversation you could have asked 10
years ago. In fact, I wrote stuff 10
years ago. Are there winner takes all
effect in autonomous cars? Will Tesla
get it working with cameras before
everybody else gets it working with LAR?
Well, Whimo's got it working with 50
grand of LAR or whatever that stat cost.
It's tens of thousands of dollars of
extra stuff on the car. So, they've got
it working with all of that stuff. Tesla
does not does not have it working with
cameras. Will Tesla get it working with
cameras before Whimo can get rid of the
LAR?
Uh, we could have had that conversation.
I literally was on podcasts seven, eight
years ago having those conversations. We
don't know the answer. Maybe. We don't
know. The interesting Tesla point is
people always looked at it and said,
"It's the iPhone of cars." No, it's not.
What's happening is that cars are
becoming Android with no iPhone. And
then Tesla is just selling and is is in
that metaphor Tesla is just another
android phone maker and they're
competing with the whole Chinese
industrial policy to make more and
there's going just going to be a flood
outside the US is they're protected by
tariffs. Everywhere else it's very clear
what's happening is there just a flood
of EVs with that are just as good as
Teslas.
>> We always end on the same question which
is what is success for you?
>> We live in the luckiest time. You know
we are not worried about rockets landing
on our heads. We're not worried about
our children dying from diseases. We're
not worried that the bank might be
closed tomorrow and all of your money is
gone. We're doing something interesting
that we enjoy and that pays the rent
that we want to be able to pay. I get
paid to fly around the world and give
slides for money. So, I think I'm doing
okay. I could always be doing more. Um,
but I'm always looking for the next
question. Like, I'm always trying to be
curious.
>> This was a great conversation. Thanks
for taking the time today.
>> Great. Thank you. You've just spent your
most valuable asset with me, your time.
My commitment to you is that you get the
best possible return on that investment
moving forward. Subscribing and hitting
that thumbs up button ensures my team
and I can continue to bring you amazing
conversations like the ones on your
screen right now. Until next time.